we're currently inah and we are in one
of the tents area in this area where
hundreds of Palestinian refugees came
here and are internally displaced after
the Israeli forces asked areas like noat
and magazi to evacuate from those areas
as you see it's totally dark we're using
our own lights to walk through the tent
and this is the only way these
Palestinians have light and can cook
food and we have been seeing a lot of
tents lighting up fire and because they
do not have cooking gas they do not have
any type of lighting for warmth and to
cook food other than putting coal and
using some wood to light up fire it's
very cold uh most of the people do not
have winter clothes because when they
evacuated from the Northern areas and
from other areas across of the Gaza STP
they evacuated with without any winter
clothes and at that time the weather was
very warm some families told us that
they do not even have wood to light up
fire and as you see some people do not
even have wood and do not have coal and
cannot afford it and they are in the
tents but despite the fact that they are
in the tents they are telling us that
the tents are very weak and they do not
have a plastic coverage and it's very
cold for them inside all of these people
had their houses had their memories had
all of their belongings and they were
forced to leave everything away this is
hind for Al
jazer and now as we reported we Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says
Israel should take control of the
Philadelphia Corridor on gaza's border
with Egypt the corridor is a 14
kilm uh strip of land on the southern
tip of Gaza we're going to talk more
about this now with g
bagdat he is a political science
professor at the National Defense
University his expertise includes Egypt
and Palestinian Israeli conflict he
joins us now from Washington thanks very
much for being with us so just talk
first of all uh about this this Corridor
because it may not be familiar to um a
lot of viewers and and where it is and
what what is the purpose of
it thank you for having me basically
Gaza is surrounded by Israel on one side
and Egypt on the other side and the
Mediterranean Sea and uh to Great extent
all movement are either from the Israeli
side which has been blocked for many
years or from the Egyptian side and uh
for many years uh Egypt has allowed
humanitarian assistance to Gaza through
this
Corridor so this is what uh the um
Israeli Prime Minister is is asking for
what do you think is going to happen
here I I don't believe it will happen uh
there is no way Egypt will accept uh
Israeli forces to take charge of this
Corridor and it will be very hard for
Israeli forces to uh
control the corridor from Gaza side
because it is in the southern part of
Gaza very far from Israeli borders so it
will be logistically very hard for
Israel to maintain any troops on this
Gaza Egyptian
borders if we look at the bigger picture
here what does this tell us about
Israel's uh military operations in Gaza
right now and where where things stand
with that that he is he is asking uh for
Israel's control of of this uh stretch
of
corridor I I believe I can make two
points here my understanding first uh
United States and Europe and many
countries have been putting pressure on
Israel to end the military operation and
not to occupy Gaza uh my understanding
Israeli government is entertaining the
idea of occupying Gaza at least for some
time and uh this will not happen because
occupation means
resistance and the other point by
talking about uh Israel controlling this
Corridor it shows that Israel does not
trust Egypt to control the corridor and
this is very bad because Egypt and
Israel have been working together for
many years and there are no uh
complaints about the peace treaty
between the two countries but this
statement by the Israeli Prime Minister
Netanyahu shows lack of trust in Egypt
and Egypt I'm sure will be very angry uh
reacting to this statement by
Netanyahu good to get your perspective
on this goet beet thanks very much for
being with us
thank
you